the German foreign minister analina Bok
will visit Israel on Friday the German
Chancellor Olaf Schulz has been
criticizing the Palestinian president
Mohammed Abbas over his silence after
the Hamas attacks on Israel as Schulz
has been addressing parliament in Berlin
and he urged abass to condemn the
actions of the Armed group the German
Chancellor also reiterating all
development aid for the Palestinian
territories under
review I ask myself where is the clear
condemnation of the terrorist violence
from the Palestinian Authority and its
president Mahmud Abbas
[Applause]
abas I will say your silence is
shameful we will review our entire
development Aid to the Palestinian
territories our yard stick will be
weather and how these project best serve
peace in the region and the security of
Israel
well for more on this let's go to Berlin
how Melissa CH is standing by for us so
Melissa what more do we know about the
German foreign minister and her visit to
Israel we have no details right this
moment this just got confirmed a few
minutes earlier but as far as German
foreign policy in regards to Israel is
concerned uh there should be no
surprises the message is going to be
consistent uh German officials have come
out to say repeatedly that they stand
with Israel uh we heard Schultz speaking
earlier today about uh the obligations
um and also offering any assistance any
help whatever it is that Israel wants
Germany will do its best to provide um
just mentioning earlier of course the
the stoppage of development Aid I think
it is worth pointing out however uh that
it does not disclude the possibility of
Berlin providing humanitarian Aid uh so
that is something to look out for in
terms of uh the decisions from the
foreign minister and also the chancellor
on that point what about the the German
government what's their view on the
stance on
Hamas I mean of course they have uh
condemned what Hamas has done uh very
interesting though is the for lack of a
better word the the lack of nuance here
uh in Berlin in part because of uh
Germany's history uh it's history of
World War II and the Nazis and the
Holocaust means that German officials
and the official government position on
Israel is to stand with Israel often
quite uncritically so when reporters ask
for example whether there was any
concern about Israel uh violating
international law as it uh continues
with its offensive uh on Gaza German
officials couldn't actually even bring
themselves to confirm that uh they would
just only repeat over and over again as
questions the same question was asked
over and over again that they stand with
Israel so that is kind of the context
and the position here uh we do know that
the foreign minister has expressed an
interest in um asking and hoping for
mediation in terms of freeing the
hostages from Qatar as well so that is
something that she will probably be
discussing and tell us more military if
you would about the the uh position on
development Aid and providing
development aid for the Palestinians
yeah absolutely I mean they say they're
suspending the development Aid and
they're going to uh review every single
one of the projects um and that no no
money will be given over to uh Palestine
in the interim period uh no idea how
long this process is going to last but
uh just based on my uh personal
observation in terms of how German
bureaucracy works this could take a very
long time uh so really the focus now in
terms of decision making is what German
officials choose to do when it comes to
humanitarian Aid how much they can give
uh what they can offer in terms of
assistance uh to Gaza Melissa thanks for
that Melissa Chan there in Berlin thanks
very much indeed